Authentication
==============

* `core.string_to_privs(str[, delim])`:
    * Converts string representation of privs into table form
    * `delim`: String separating the privs. Defaults to `","`.
    * Returns `{ priv1 = true, ... }`
* `core.privs_to_string(privs[, delim])`:
    * Returns the string representation of `privs`
    * `delim`: String to delimit privs. Defaults to `","`.
* `core.get_player_privs(name) -> {priv1=true,...}`
* `core.check_player_privs(player_or_name, ...)`:
  returns `bool, missing_privs`
    * A quickhand for checking privileges.
    * `player_or_name`: Either a Player object or the name of a player.
    * `...` is either a list of strings, e.g. `"priva", "privb"` or
      a table, e.g. `{ priva = true, privb = true }`.

* `core.check_password_entry(name, entry, password)`
    * Returns true if the "password entry" for a player with name matches given
      password, false otherwise.
    * The "password entry" is the password representation generated by the
      engine as returned as part of a `get_auth()` call on the auth handler.
    * Only use this function for making it possible to log in via password from
      external protocols such as IRC, other uses are frowned upon.
* `core.get_password_hash(name, raw_password)`
    * Convert a name-password pair to a password hash that Luanti can use.
    * The returned value alone is not a good basis for password checks based
      on comparing the password hash in the database with the password hash
      from the function, with an externally provided password, as the hash
      in the db might use the new SRP verifier format.
    * For this purpose, use `core.check_password_entry` instead.
* `core.get_player_ip(name)`: returns an IP address string for the player
  `name`.
    * The player needs to be online for this to be successful.

* `core.get_auth_handler()`: Return the currently active auth handler
    * Must be called *after* load time, to ensure that any custom auth handler was
      already registered.
    * See the [Authentication handler definition]
    * Use this to e.g. get the authentication data for a player:
      `local auth_data = core.get_auth_handler().get_auth(playername)`
* `core.notify_authentication_modified(name)`
    * Must be called by the authentication handler for privilege changes.
    * `name`: string; if omitted, all auth data should be considered modified
* `core.set_player_password(name, password_hash)`: Set password hash of
  player `name`.
* `core.set_player_privs(name, privs)`: Set privileges of player `name`.
    * `privs` is a **set** of privileges:
      A table where the keys are names of privileges and the values are `true`.
    * Example: `core.set_player_privs("singleplayer", {interact = true, fly = true})`.
      This **sets** the player privileges to `interact` and `fly`;
      `singleplayer` will only have these two privileges afterwards.
* `core.change_player_privs(name, changes)`: Helper to grant or revoke privileges.
    * `changes`: Table of changes to make.
      A field `[privname] = true` grants a privilege,
      whereas `[privname] = false` revokes a privilege.
    * Example: `core.change_player_privs("singleplayer", {interact = true, fly = false})`
      will grant singleplayer the `interact` privilege
      and revoke singleplayer's `fly` privilege.
      All other privileges will remain unchanged.
* `core.auth_reload()`
    * See `reload()` in authentication handler definition

`core.set_player_password`, `core.set_player_privs`,
`core.get_player_privs` and `core.auth_reload` call the authentication
handler.
